============
INSTALLATION
============

Unpack the distribution file. Move the resulting directory "antville" 
into the directory "apps" of your Helma Object Publisher installation.

Inside the directory "antville" you will find a zipped archive called 
"db_support.zip". This archive contains all database-related files, 
ie. several SQL scripts for creating the database needed by the 
application. So first unpack db_support.zip which will create a 
directory called "db_support". Change to that directory.

Antville comes with scripts for MySQL (antville_mysql.sql) and for 
Oracle databases (antville_oracle.sql) - the third one, 
antville_mckoi.sql, is only used for the Mckoi database used in the 
AntClick distribution.

Each of these scripts are not only creating the tables, indexes and 
initial records, but also the account used by the application to 
communicate with the database. Both the default username and password 
of this account are "antville", so you probably want to change that 
(you should!). Open the appropriate script and scroll down to the 
section called "Database-User". Search for "identified by" and change 
the value in quotes to the password of your choice.

Please refer to the documentation of your database on how to run the 
appropriate script. After done so you'll have to tell Antville how it 
can access your database. This is done in a configuration file named 
"db.properties".

Antville comes with two templates for db.properties, one for MySQL 
(db.properties.mysql) and one for Oracle (db.properties.oracle). Open 
the template for your database and ensure that the line beginning with 
"antville.url=" points to the server that runs the database (for MySQL 
this will in most cases look like http://localhost:3306/antville, 
assuming that the database is running on the same machine as the 
application). 

Check that user and password are correct and save the file as 
"db.properties" (without the quotes) in the root directory of the 
Antville application (if it is already existing you can safely 
overwrite it).

NOTE: If you're using Oracle you need to install the JDBC driver for 
your database by placing the appropriate zip file into the 
subdirectory "lib/ext" located in Helma's installation directory (you 
can download the JDBC driver for your Oracle-database at 
http://technet.oracle.com/software/tech/java/sqlj_jdbc/content.html). 
The driver for MySQL is already contained in the distribution of Helma 
Object Publisher.

Next you need to copy the default images of Antville to the 
appropriate place. If you are planning to use the embeded webserver of 
Helma Object Publisher, change to the directory "static" of your Helma 
installation. Create a directory called "antville" and in there two 
subdirectories: "images" and "files" (of course you can use any other 
schema too, you just need to adapt the application properties in the 
next step). Unpack the archive "images.zip" located in the application 
directory of Antville to your newly created directory images. NOTE: 
Don't place your images outside the directory "static" if you're using 
Helma's embedded webserver, otherwise it won't find them.

Open the file "apps.properties" located in the directory where you 
installed Helma and append the word "antville" (without quotes) in a 
new line. Then start up Helma, and after pointing your browser to 
http://localhost:8080/antville (assuming that Helma is running on the 
same machine and uses port 8080) you should see Antville's welcome 
page. It will tell you about the two additional configuration steps 
necessary: you need to register once to gain system administration 
rights and then you must configure the basic preferences (like 
language settings, date formats etc.)

If everything went fine you can safely delete the directory 
"db_support".
